Ilariae/sui tutorial (#129)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: tutorials/messaging/sui-connect.md

While this tutorial will guide you through the process using a specific blockchain as an example, the principles and steps outlined here can be applied to any blockchain supported by Wormhole. In this example, we’ll work with Sui as our source blockchain and Avalanche Fuji as the destination blockchain.

## Prerequisites

To get started with Wormhole Connect, we'll first need to set up a basic environment that allows for cross-chain token transfers.
Before starting this tutorial, ensure you have the following:

- [Node.js and npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm){target=\_blank} installed on your machine
- A [Sui wallet](https://suiwallet.com/){target=\_blank} set up and ready for use
- A [compatible wallet](https://support.avax.network/en/articles/5520938-what-are-the-official-avalanche-wallets){target=\_blank} for Avalanche Fuji, such as [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/){target=\_blank} 
- Testnet tokens for [Sui](https://docs.sui.io/guides/developer/getting-started/get-coins){target=\_blank} and [Fuji](https://core.app/tools/testnet-faucet/?subnet=c&token=c){target=\_blank} to cover gas fees 

> ## Setting Up Connect for Sui Transfers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set Up Connect for Sui Transfers
```

So it matches the other headers

### Create a React Project

Start by setting up your React app:

1. Open your terminal and run the following command to create a new React app:

    ```bash
    npx create-react-app connect-tutorial
    ```

2. Navigate into the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd connect-tutorial
    ```

### Install Wormhole Connect

Next, install the Wormhole Connect package as a dependency by running the following command inside your project directory:

```bash
npm install @wormhole-foundation/wormhole-connect
```

### Integrate Connect into the Application

Now, we need to modify the default `App.js` file to integrate Wormhole Connect. We are going to use [version V1.0](/docs/build/applications/connect/upgrade/){target=\_blank}, make sure to check which version of connect you are using. Open `src/App.js` and replace the content with the following code:

```js
import logo from './logo.svg';
import './App.css';
import WormholeConnect from '@wormhole-foundation/wormhole-connect';

const config = {
    network: 'testnet',
    chains: ['sui', 'fuji'],
};

function App() {
    return <WormholeConnect config={config}/>;
}

export default App;
``` 

> - set `network` to `testnet` - this ensures that Wormhole Connect uses the testnet environment
> - set `chains` to `['suji', 'sui']` - configures the app to allow transfers between Sui and Avalanche Fuji, the testnet for Avalanche

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set `network` to `testnet` - this ensures that Wormhole Connect uses the testnet environment
- Set `chains` to `['suji', 'sui']` - configures the app to allow transfers between Sui and Avalanche Fuji, the testnet for Avalanche
```

> ### Customizing Wormhole Connect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize Wormhole Connect
```

Just so it matches the other headers

To further customize Wormhole Connect for your application, such as adjusting the UI, adding custom tokens, or configuring specific chain settings, you can refer to the [Wormhole Connect Configuration guide](/docs/build/applications/connect/configuration/#introduction){target=\_blank}. 

### Run the Application

Make sure you’re in the root directory of your React app, and run the following command to start the application:

```bash
npm start
```

Now your React app should be up and running, and Wormhole Connect should be visible on [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/){target=\_blank}. You should see the Wormhole Connect component, which will include a UI for selecting networks and tokens for cross-chain transfers.

## Transfer Tokens from Sui to Fuji

Before transferring token ensure you have enough testnet SUI and Fuji tokens to cover the gas fees for the transfer. 

To transfer tokens from Sui to Fuji in the Wormhole Connect interface:

> 1. Select Sui as the source network and connect your Sui wallet
> 2. Select SUI as the asset you wish to transfer
> 3. Choose Fuji as the destination network and connect your wallet with the Fuji network
> 4. Enter the amount of SUI tokens you wish to transfer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Sui** as the source network and connect your Sui wallet
2. Select **SUI** as the asset you wish to transfer
3. Choose **Fuji** as the destination network and connect your wallet with the Fuji network
4. Enter the amount of SUI tokens you wish to transfer
```

Use bold for elements referenced on the UI

    ![](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-1.webp)

> 5. Choose the **Manual Bridge** option, which will require two transactions: one on the source chain (Sui) and one on the destination chain (Fuji).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Choose the **Manual Bridge** option, which will require two transactions: one on the source chain (Sui) and one on the destination chain (Fuji)
```

## Prerequisites

To get started with Wormhole Connect, we'll first need to set up a basic environment that allows for cross-chain token transfers.
Before starting this tutorial, ensure you have the following:

- [Node.js and npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm){target=\_blank} installed on your machine
- A [Sui wallet](https://suiwallet.com/){target=\_blank} set up and ready for use
- A compatible wallet for Avalanche Fuji, such as MetaMask 
- Testnet tokens for [Sui](https://github.com/MystenLabs/mysten-app-docs/blob/main/mysten-sui-wallet.md#get-sui-tokens-for-testing){target=\_blank} and [Fuji](https://faucets.chain.link/fuji){target=\_blank} to cover gas fees 

## Setting Up Connect for SUI Transfers

### Creat a react projecy

Start by setting up your React app. 

1. Open your terminal and run the following command to create a new React app:

    ```bash

>     npx create-react-app connect-tutorial

Reviewer: I thought I heard that create-react-app was deprecated? Do you know anything about that?

    ```

2. Navigate into the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd connect-tutorial
    ```

### Install Wormhole Connect

Next, install the Wormhole Connect package as a dependency.

- Run the following command inside your project directory:

    ```bash
    npm install @wormhole-foundation/wormhole-connect
    ```

> ### Update the App Component

Reviewer: This title could be improved. Like sure you're updating the app component, but what are you updating it to do?

Now, we need to modify the default `App.js` to integrate Wormhole Connect.

1. Open `src/App.js` and replace the content with the following code:

    ```js
    import logo from './logo.svg';
    import './App.css';
    import WormholeConnect from '@wormhole-foundation/wormhole-connect';

    const config = {
        env: 'testnet',
        networks: ['sui', 'fuji'],
    };

    function App() {
        return <WormholeConnect config={config} />;
    }

    export default App;
    ```

??? interface "Parameters"

    `env` 
    set to 'testnet': This ensures that Wormhole Connect uses the testnet environment, which is perfect for your demonstration.

    `networks` 

>     set to ['suji', 'sui']: Configures the app to allow transfers between Sui and Avalanche Fuji, the testnet for Avalanche

Reviewer: The expandable element makes the content inside sort of hidden, but I think it's important to explain the configuration

A few things about the parameters:

- The formatting here doesn't follow our typical standards with the colon and then capitalized first letter
- Watch punctuation
- The definition for `env` seems like maybe copy paste chatgpt stuff haha, particularly "which is perfect for your demonstration"
- The values for the parameter should be wrapped in backticks

### Customizing Wormhole Connect

> To further customize Wormhole Connect for your application, such as adjusting the UI, adding custom tokens, or configuring specific chain settings, you can refer to the [Wormhole Connect Customization Guide](/docs/build/applications/connect/configuration/#introduction){target=\_blank}. 

Reviewer: You only need to capitalize the letters in the link text if the title is a 1:1 match. The title of that page is just 'Configuration," so you could do "Wormhole Connect Configuration guide" or "Wormhole Connect customization guide"

Reviewer: This section feels pretty empty, is there nothing that they should customize for this particular guide?

Author: they can customize whatever depeding on their needs, I didn't go more in depth here because we already have a page about customization they should look there, in my mind it was just supposed to be a redirect

### Run the App

Make sure you’re in the root directory of your React app, and run the following command to start the application:

```bash
npm start
```

> Your app will start on [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/){target=\_blank}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your app will start on [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/){target=\_blank}.
```

## Transfer Tokens

After running `npm start`, your React app should be up and running, and Wormhole Connect should be visible on [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/){target=\_blank}. 

### Select Networks

> Open Your Browser and go to [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/){target=\_blank}. You should see the Wormhole Connect component, which will include a UI for selecting networks and tokens for cross-chain transfers.

Reviewer: This is repetitive of the "Run the App" section. It might make more sense to add what the user could expect to see in that section than repeating it here.

In the Wormhole Connect interface:

- Select Sui as the source network and connect your Sui wallet
- Choose Fuji as the destination network and connect your wallet with the Fuji network
- Enter the amount of SUI tokens you wish to transfer
- Ensure you have enough testnet SUI tokens to cover the gas fees for the transfer.

> 

Reviewer: These are ordered steps, so they should be numbered. Remove punctuation at the end of the last list item

> ![img description](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-1.webp)

Reviewer: There should be ordered steps in this image that match with the steps above. Also, now that I look back at the steps, the last one should probably not be in the list of steps, but maybe mentioned beforehand

Reviewer: Also, since the steps match the image, you can just use an empty bracket for the alt text `![](...)`

### Select Route 

> Choose the **Manual Bridge** option, which will require two transactions: one on the source chain (Sui) and one on the destination chain (Fuji)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the **Manual Bridge** option, which will require two transactions: one on the source chain (Sui) and one on the destination chain (Fuji).
```

> ![img description](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-2.webp)

Reviewer: Here, you should use an arrow. topoint out the Manual Bridge option. Empty bracket for alt text

Author: what arrow do you mean?

### Approve and Proceed with Transaction

- Confirm the transfer on Sui. This will lock your tokens on the Sui chain
- Follow the on-screen prompts to approve the transaction. You will be asked to approve with your Sui wallet

> - You can track the process on your transaction on [Wormholescan](https://wormholescan.io/#/?network=Testnet){target=\_blank}

Reviewer: The first two are steps, so they should be ordered. The third could be a standalone sentence. Also, the image doesn't seem relative to what the user is performing in the steps, but rather what happens after the steps are completed. So, there should be some text that explains that. For example:

```
Once the transaction has been submitted, you'll be able to review its status on the app. You can also track your transactions on [Wormholescan](https://wormholescan.io/#/?network=Testnet){target=\_blank}.

![](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-3.webp)
```

![img description](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-3.webp)

> Wormhole Connect will display the progress of the transfer. Monitor the status until you’re prompted to complete the transaction on the destination chain.

Reviewer: Ahhh ok, so this should be before the image

### Claim Tokens on Fuji

After the Sui transaction is complete, confirm the final transaction on Fuji by claiming the wrapped tokens. You will be asked to confirm the transaction with your Fuji wallet.

![img description](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-4.webp)

### Transaction Complete

> 

Reviewer: This seems like it should be part of the Claim Tokens on Fuji section

Now, we need to modify the default `App.js` file to integrate Wormhole Connect. We are going to use [version V1.0](/docs/build/applications/connect/upgrade/){target=\_blank}, make sure to check which version of connect you are using. Open `src/App.js` and replace the content with the following code:

> === "Javascript"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== "JavaScript"
```

    ```js
    import logo from './logo.svg';
    import './App.css';
    import WormholeConnect from '@wormhole-foundation/wormhole-connect';

    const config = {
        network: 'Testnet',
        chains: ['Sui', 'Avalanche'],
    };

    function App() {
        return <WormholeConnect config={config}/>;
    }

    export default App;
    ``` 

> === "Typescript"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== "TypeScript"
```

To transfer tokens from Sui to Fuji in the Wormhole Connect interface:

> 1. Select **Sui** as the source network, connect your Sui wallet and choose **SUI** as the asset you wish to transfer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Sui** as the source network, connect your Sui wallet, and choose **SUI** as the asset you wish to transfer
```

2. Choose **Fuji** as the destination network and connect your wallet with the Fuji network

> 3. Enter the amount of SUI tokens you wish to transfer

Reviewer: We should sync about the layout here. It works for now, but ideally it'd be a little bit different

    ![](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-1.webp)

4. Choose to view other routes 
    
    ![](/docs/images/tutorials/connect/connect-2.webp)

> 5. Select the **manual bridge** option, which will require two transactions: one on the source chain (Sui) and one on the destination chain (Fuji)

Reviewer: Is manual bridge not an option on the UI anymore? It doesn't look like it per the image

Reviewer: And more specifically, the text "manual bridge" - if not this should not be in bold. We should also add clarity, because it's kinda confusing what the difference is by looking at the screenshot alone

Author: in the old ui they were called manual bridge and automatic bridge so that should be the actual name but it's not displayed in this version

    !!! note

>         We recommend using the manual bridge option for this tutorial. The automatic bridge feature is currently experiencing issues, while the manual bridge ensures that transfers complete successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        It is recommended to use the manual bridge option for this tutorial. The automatic bridge feature is currently undergoing improvements, while the manual bridge ensures that transfers complete successfully.
```

Just to make it sound a little bit better haha
